NAME

Data::IEEE754::Tools - Various tools for understanding and manipulating the underlying IEEE-754 representation of floating point values

DESCRIPTION

These tools give access to the underlying IEEE 754 floating-point 64bit
representation used by many instances of Perl (see perlguts). They
include functions for converting from the 64bit internal representation
to a string that shows those bits (either as hexadecimal or binary) and
back, functions for converting that encoded value into a more
human-readable format to give insight into the meaning of the encoded
values, and functions to manipulate the smallest possible change for a
given floating-point value (which is the ULP
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unit_in_the_last_place> or "Unit in the
Last Place").

COMPATIBILITY

Data::IEEE754::Tools works with 64bit floating-point representations.

If you have a Perl setup which uses a larger representation (for
example, "use Config; print $Config{nvsize}; # 16 => 128bit"), values
reported by this module will be reduced in precision to fit the 64bit
representation.

If you have a Perl setup which uses a smaller representation (for
example, "use Config; print $Config{nvsize}; # 4 => 32bit"), the
installation will likely fail, because the unit tests were not set up
for lower precision inputs. However, forcing the installation *might*
still allow coercion from the smaller Perl NV into a true IEEE 754
double (64bit) floating-point, but there is no guarantee it will work.

INSTALLATION

To install this module, use your favorite CPAN client.

For a manual install, type the following:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

(On Windows machines, you may need to use "dmake" instead of "make".)

AUTHOR

Peter C. Jones <petercj AT cpan DOT org>

Please report any bugs or feature requests emailing <bug-Data-IEEE754-Tools AT rt.cpan.org>
or thru the web interface at <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Data-IEEE754-Tools>

COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2016 Peter C. Jones

LICENCE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See <http://dev.perl.org/licenses/> for more information.
